---
layout:     post
title:      "To them"
subtitle:   "No matter how far i reach, they are always in me."
date:       2015-07-17 12:00:00
author:     "mdasif"
header-img: "img/parent.jpg"
comments: true
---

Ours is a relationship of pure love and devoid of expectations. There are expectations of course, but those are a given. I dont have to work hard to meet their's, and they doesn’t have to work hard to meet mine. Its a high energy relationship between "givers”. There is no control-drama. I have not ever felt that they are trying to control me, & i never try to cross the limits, at least the ones I think are fair. And I have never ever felt the need to communicate what kind of attachment i feel for them. They know. Instinctively.

I hope it stays that way. I hope we cherish each other more and more as we grows older, wiser, and continue to do lot of things that will make them happy. I hope they stays as happy as they had been as young couple, grow more fond of each other enjoying the every small happiness of life. And I sincerely hope, I will be able to contribute in their life in the little ways that I can. I hope they always looks at me proudly and say to themself “Here’s a guy we can go to, if we are down”… That’s perhaps my biggest responsibility. But its not something that they need to ask. The onus is on me, to stay there, with them, all the way, when they needs me, and even when they doesn’t. 

Everyone feels this at some stage in their lives, will our relationship be the same, or will it just take a different shape. But thats not the case for us. I know that when I am around them, there will always be lots of fun like it always has been. And when i am away, we will remember each other, without talking to anyone else about it. A deep “I-know-he-is-far-away-doing-his-thing-but-I-know-he-thinks-about-us-every-single-day” feeling.

Happy anniversay to both of you!