---
layout:     post
title:      "Logan"
subtitle:   "If I could start again, I would find a way"
date:       2016-12-16 12:00:00
author:     "mdasif"
header-img: "img/logan.jpg"
comments: false
---

Just watched the `Logan` trailor and I am blown away with the settings of the movie. I have always been fan of dark and gritty superhero(or heroines, Wonderwoman i am so eagerly waiting for you) movies. So no surpise i liked the background rundown setup in Mexican desert with rusty towers, dirt and forest, a very honest & accurate visual depiction of misery.

<a href="https://twitter.com/mang0ld/status/783653479113904128/photo/1" target="_blank">From the screenplay of Logan</a>, `As for our hero, well, he's older now and it's clear his abilities aren't what they were once. He's fading on the inside and his diminished healing factor keeps him in a constant state of chronic pain -- hence booze as painkiller.`

`So by all means, go ahead and worry about him.`

So Logan, whose healing & regenerative powers have kept him fit for almost 200 years, is an old, broken and depressed man. He is filthy, drives an busted car, lives in a rusted out building and gets his ass kicked a lot. This guy has seen some shit, and it’s taken a toll on him. Movie promises to be violent, but he deserves kind of farewell. The trailor also gives away his fate & this is going to be be his last hurray as Wolverine. Also using haunting `hurt` to show Logan's soul crushing mental state is marvellous. I am so ready for the movie to release.

<iframe width="100%" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ny3hScFgCIQ" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Interesting this is my second post about movies & still i haven't found time to write about my favorite character `Batman`, i should fix this soon!
